---
title: My Vinternship Journey: Learning, Struggling, and Growing Step by Step
author: Mohammed Khajal
vinternship_id: WIN251430
---

Starting my winter internship under the guidance of Professor Sudarshan Iyengar at IIT Ropar has been a special experience for me. It is a virtual internship, but even through a screen, I felt that real learning was happening.

This internship is for 10 weeks, and through it we are given access to the ViBe learning platform to learn the MERN stack. Before joining this program, I already had some good knowledge about full stack development and MERN stack. However, one thing that was completely new for me was TypeScript. I had zero experience with it, and in the beginning, it felt confusing and challenging.

The way learning happens on ViBe is different from what I was used to. Instead of long lectures, there are very short videos, mostly one or two minutes long. After every video, there is a small quiz to check our understanding. At first, I wondered if such short videos would really help, but slowly I realized they make learning easier and more focused.

Sometimes the platform feels a little frustrating, especially when I get answers wrong or do not understand something immediately. But I am learning that frustration is part of growth. Every time I try again, I understand things a little better.

So far, I have completed around 60% of the course, and I can already see improvement in myself. From struggling with TypeScript in the beginning to now feeling more comfortable while learning React, it feels like real progress.

We also have breakout sessions where we can interact with other interns and share ideas. I have attended a few of these sessions. Even though I feel shy and find it difficult to speak openly, listening to others has helped me learn a lot. I know this is an area where I want to improve and become more confident.

There are also standup sessions and live sessions where we interact with seniors and mentors. Hearing their experiences motivates me and gives me a clearer picture of the industry and learning journey.

This internship is teaching me more than just coding.  
It is teaching me:

• To be patient when things are hard  
• To keep trying even when I feel frustrated  
• To stay consistent in learning  
• To improve confidence step by step  

I still have more to learn in React and later MongoDB and Express, but I already feel more confident than when I started.

This journey is not about being perfect.  
It is about learning a little every day and growing slowly.

I am grateful for this opportunity and excited to continue improving as a learner and future developer.

---

Author: [Mohammed Khajal](https://www.linkedin.com/in/khajal-mohammad-8900712bb){:target="_blank"}  
LinkedIn Article: [Read on LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/khajal-mohammad-8900712bb_vinternship-fullstackdevelopment-mernstack-activity-7424748438354845696-vS-y){:target="_blank"}
